Title: "Name: Bucket"
Published: 2017-08-21
Tags: REST, HTTP
---
A resource used to indicate the status of a "child" resource.

## Problem
A user wishes to manage a set of resource that over their lifetime will transition through a set of statuses. The user wishes to be able to change the status of a resource and identify resources that have a particular status, whilst ensuring that no resources exist in two states at once.

## Solution
The bucket resource generally returns a list of entities when a GET method is issued.

    GET /issues/open HTTP/1.1
    Host: example.org
    =>
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-Type: application/vnd.collection+json
    ...

A POST request is used to send a representation of the class of resource that is held in the `bucket` resource.  The process of adding this resource to the `bucket` should change the status of the resource to be the same as all of the other resources held in the `bucket`.

    POST /issues/pendingreview HTTP/1.1
    Host: example.org
    Content-Type: application/vnd.issue+json
    Content-Length: ...
    
    {
     "id" : 745,
     "short-description" : "There is a typo on the home page",
     "status" : "Open"
    }
    
    =>
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-Location: http://example.org/issue/745
    Content-Type: application/vnd.issue+json
    Content-Length: ...
    
    {
     "id" : 745,
     "short-description" : "There is a typo on the home page",
     "status" : "Pending Review"
    }

In this example, we returned an updated representation of the resource in the response to the POST.  However, this is completely optional.  There is no need to return a response body and it is not even required to include the status property in the response.  The `200` status code should be sufficent to guarantee that the resource status has been updated.

## Discussion
It is recommended that in order to change the status of a resource, a complete representation of the resource is posted. This approach most accurately reflects the client's intent.  It is also possible to POST a URL into the `bucket`, to avoid having to retreive the resource with the old status and then resend that same information to the new bucket.  The risk in only sending a URL is that the resource may have changed since the client last retreived it. 
This could lead to a client doing something that it did not intend to do.

If tbe risks of sending just a URL are tolerable then there is an additional advantage. By using the 'text/uri-list' media type then you can send multiple URLs and have the ability to change the status of many resources in a single request.

## Related Patterns
Miniput, [Whack-a-mole](../16402/HTTP-Patterns--Whackamole)
